**URL Shortener**

This project is a URL shortening service designed to generate shortened, unique aliases for long URLs. It provides a web API for shortening URLs, updating them, and redirecting users to the original URLs. URLs generated by this service expire after a default period of 10 months.

**Features**

**Shorten URL:** Given a long URL, the service generates a shorter and unique alias.
**Update URL:** Allows updating the destination URL associated with a short URL.
**Redirect:** Users are redirected to the original long URL when they visit the short URL.
**Expiry:** Shortened URLs expire after 10 months by default.
**High Availability:** The system is designed to be highly available to ensure minimal downtime and reliable URL redirection.

**Security:** Shortened URLs are designed to be unpredictable to enhance security.

**API Endpoints:**
POST /shorten: Shorten a URL.
POST /update: Update the destination URL for a short URL.
GET /{shortUrl}: Redirect to the original URL associated with the short URL.
POST /update_expiry: Update the expiry duration of a short URL.
Technologies Used

**Java:** Backend development using Java.

**Spring Boot:** Framework for creating web applications.

**MySQL:** Database management system for storing URLs.
Apache Commons Lang: Library for generating random strings.

**JUnit:** Unit testing framework for Java.
Getting Started

**Clone the Repository:**
git clone https://github.com/revanthsai146/URL-Shortener.git
cd url-shortener
Configure Database:
Set up PostgreSQL and configure database settings in application.properties.

**Build and Run:**
./mvnw spring-boot:run or mvn spring-boot:run

**API Usage:**
Use tools like Postman or cURL to interact with the API endpoints.
